Project management is relevant for developers because if they ever work in a group, they'll either be managed (under a plan-driven system) or have partial responsibility for managing a project (under an Agile system). Project management is made up of three areas: project planning, project oversight, and the retrospective, which occur before, during, and after a project, respectively. The first step of project planning is deciding how the team will be organized, as well as what the process of making the project will be like and what each day of developing will look like. The next step is determining all that could go wrong and how to prevent what can be prevented and deal with the inevitable problems. The next step is figuring out what resources will be needed for the project. Next, the project is broken down into tasks small enough to predict the time needed for each, and that, along with considerations like certain tasks only being doable after other tasks and when developers will actually be able to code, is used to create a schedule for the project (though it's useful to include in the schedule some way to show how well everyone is able to follow the schedule). Project oversight includes meetings to discuss the current state of the project and any problems that anyone has run into. It also includes oversight from a manager to make sure that everything and everyone (including the manager themselves) is working smoothly, which includes providing positive motivation, listening to the developers, and separating the developers from distractions outside their roles. It may also include using a defect tracking system to keep track of defects and make sure they're dealt with. The retrospective is where the time spent on the project is examined to decide what did and didn't work as expected or desired and what should be done differently next time (as well as who will make sure things are done differently).