# Chapter3 Summary of summaries
## Project Management Essentials

   Managing project is requred if the project is worked together by the team. We need to plan to be done and estimate the time and cost before working on the actual project work. There is usually a contract or a document of schedule and the plan which states how the project is going to be carried out who is going to do what and how long it is going to take. Having an organized team will likely to have more productivity and better results. There are risks such as schedule slipping which require more time, misunderstanding requirements between custimers and developes, having lots of testing bugs, churns like reworking the functions, and keeping the developers organized and happy. We need to predicts these risks and figure out ways to avoid them. We need know the requirements of the project and the resources such software or hardware could work the best for the project. Estimates includes the size of the project, cost and time. When planing the schedule, we cannot assume that the developers are going to spend all day working on the project. Usually a developer works for only five hours on a full eight hour day. These factors are required when estimating the schedule. Vecocity can give you how well you can predict the estimates of the work with the ideal velocity of 1. Keeping a project on schedule is really important so having a supporitve and creative management is essential. When reviewing and doing presentations, we discuss what are the targets and present every news what happened during the project. There are always defects because it is less likely to have a perfectly went well as planned. Depending on the defects level, we need to report in defect tracking system so the team will know them also. Finally, we hold a meeting discussing what went right and what went wrong, what are issues and how are we going to solve them in future and who is going to slove.  